>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're gonna
talk about a couple edge cases that
were brought up.
How to account for them and
then we're gonna look at a solution.
And then we're gonna see if we
can optimize our solution and
then we'll keep rolling.
Sound good?
All right, so what David was talking about
before we went and did our exercise,
was what if our minimum is the root?
And so there's two cases where
the minimum is the root and
then it has a right sub-tree.
And then, what about the case
when the minimum is the root and
also the last element in the tree?
Are there any other edge cases that come
to mind, that came to mind when you were
doing these exercises?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
All right.
So, for this case, if we were to delete
7,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
would we have to do to our tree?
So I wrote out our tree just so we'd
have a reference to what it looks like.
Like, what would we have to
change in this nested object for
it to be correct?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we want.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sorry,
that's not what we want.
We want two lined up like this.
>> Student1: All
the pointers aren't filled out.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's
just the right pointers are, see?
>> Student2: Tree.
>> Student1: Which one has on
the right tree, not just-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's no left.
>> Student1: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But the right is,
this is the right.
>> Student1: So
then the 8 one would be pointing to 9.
>> Student2: This is the parent.
>> Student1: I get it, I gotcha,
yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Actually
this one would be null.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
we have this tree on the left.
Here it is as an object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
do we want it to look like
after we run a delete method on
it?
>> Student2: Just the second two
lines.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we would essentially delete.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This top one, right?
And we want it to look something like
this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
how do we do that in code?
We can't just delete.
Can we?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Not like that
at least.
>> Student2: Yeah,
we couldn't really figure out
a way with our implementation.
Because we don't really have
the concept of a root other
than it's the node that you start on.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm
hm.
>> Student2: And we couldn't figure out
a way to.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
the root is just where it starts, which
is going to be saved in the variable.
So because it starts here, because
the very first value in our object,
let's save into our variable name.
Has the value 7 or 7 is the root.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we'd want it to look like this,
where our very first object in
our nested data structure is,
the 8.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
essentially, what I recommend
is to rewrite 7, 7s value to 8.
Change its, overwrite its
right value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To 8
dot right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That makes sense?
>> Student2: Yes.
>> Student1: You're just overwriting
the value?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do you wanna over
write both the value?
>> Student1: I thought we couldn't do
that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
the right.
>> Student2: We tried to do that and
we thought you couldn't do that for
some reason.
Something about the value being, where if
in cases where the value is more complex
or the node held more.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, but
in this case, do you have any other
thoughts about how we could do it?
>> Student2: No.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anyone else?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Me either.
[LAUGH] Or I guess the other way
you could do it is simply just
reassign.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Starting here, right?
So if you said myBst = myBst,
let's see, so
we have to go to dot right,
then we just assign it directly.
Does that make sense?
Any questions?
>> Student2: Can you do that from within?
We tried setting this equal to this dot,
right?
In it, it wouldn't run.
Can you, could we do it at three?
If we had just done variable name
equals variable name that would
work.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
inside the function you
probably want it to be this.
And only for the case when it's the node,
when it's the root node.
>> Student2: Okay, yeah, that-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, that make sense?
>> Student2: We got an error when we tried
doing that, it said-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just make sure-
>> Student2: Invalid left-hand side in
assignment.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, are you
doing it on the prototype and everything?
>> Student2: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, I don't know.
>> Student2: The SQL stuff-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I can look at your
specific error.
>> Student1: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you can re-assign.
Okay, questions, comments?
Okay.
So what about this?
What do we do here?
So we wanna delete the minimum, but
we only have one value and because of
that fact, it's also the root.
>> Student2: If
we can re-ascend the value,
we can just say the value equals null.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm hm.
>> Student2: Or if this assignment works,
we could just set so equal to null.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
if we said this equals null,
then it would look like this.
Bst, like that.
So both work.
Just depends on what you want
to do next with it, right?
If you just want it to disappear and
you're never going to touch it again?
You know,
it's reasonable to say it's a null.
But if you're going to continue
to add children to this?
Leaves, notes,
then you're going to want to make sure
that you preserve the left and the right.
So that you can continue growing it.
So kill the tree forever,
maybe you wanna use it later,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here's a quick and
dirty deleteMin.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's check it out.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
this is the deleteMin,
by the way, not the deleteMax.
So if there's no left and
there's no right and there's a parent.
We simply set the parent left to null,
otherwise we delete the value, right?
And this is for the case where we
want to add nodes later, or whatever.
It preserves the node tree structure,
doesn't delete it forever, or
forever, right?
Sets it to null?
Cool, make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Otherwise,
if there isn't a left, but
there is a right and there's a parent.
We set the parent's left to its right.
Otherwise we can reassign the value or
just like we talked about
a second ago we could also say this
dot Ew, you're right,
we can't set this to anything.
>> Student1: Yeah you can't.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we would be stuck
doing.
>> Student1: That's what
we were stuck on.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
I'm happy with that solution then.
So, this the only way that you can
assign this is using call and apply.
That's when you can just like choose
what you want this to be, but
you have to do it when you're
invoking the function.
You can't just assign this willy nilly.
You can assign properties to this,
you could say like, this dot xyz,
you could do that, but
you can't override it.
Cool.
Yep, otherwise, we were gonna recurse.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
Quick and dirty, straightforward,
very verbose.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So what if we
want it to just change this to delete max?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do we have to
change?
>> Student2: Invert the lefts from
the rights.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
Is that it?
>> Student2: Yeah I think
so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Uh-oh.
>> Student2: Yeah [LAUGH] I was gonna say,
wow!
You have really good
memory.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm gonna
forget it all.
Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
now I'm remembering.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
you're gonna see how this.left.left works.
It works because it's a nested tree.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Double-check me here,
folks.
>> Student1: Also, if not this and
this, there you go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's
all.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
Run the code in your mind.
So, if it has
a right
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Where's our
slides?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's
look at our picture.
So let's say we're deleting 25.
So we say if there's a right, we're gonna
go all the way down right, right, right.
So if there's no children, there's
a parent, so we're setting to null.
So leaf works great.
So let's say we don't have 25 and
we're doing 20.
Pass it in, [SOUND] all the way through.
It doesn't have a right and it has a left.
It does have a parent.
So we say parent dot right
equals this dot left.
Cool.
Sounds good.
Sure, question?
>> Student3: What is this value
is equal to now do?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You have to say
that one more time and
not have your hand in front of your mouth.
>> Student3: What's not in the else
this.value is null.
Yeah, what does it do?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is if a,
if the root,
if the max value is the last node.
So there's no more nodes in this tree.
So we're just deleting this one node and
imagining there's no other nodes here.
So for a tree of size one, what do you do?
You just set that value to null and
it's just an empty tree at that point.
>> Student3: And
then you can [INAUDIBLE] statement.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so this is for
the case that there is,
so this is for, let's see.
So the max val is the root with a subtree.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
where is our, so
this is the case that we're counting for.
Where it's 7, 8, 9,
this is the minimum example,
but it's the same idea.
So if we wanted to delete 7,
it's the node,
so we have to do something different,
because the node doesn't have a parent.
And so that's why we account for
it in all these craziness nested if-else
statements.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
there are shorter ways to do this.
This is the most verbose step by step.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Moving on.
>> Student3: Delete
max.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hm?
>> Student3: How will you correct,
if you forgot delete max.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's that?
>> Student3: The last statement,
if, yeah delete max is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This one?
>> Student3: The last if.
>> Student2: Line 16,
the delete min.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hmm,
good eye.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Very cool.
>> Student1: That would make for
a confusing bug.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, especially if
deleteMin also existed.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All
right, any questions?
>> Student2: Yeah,
so for an empty tree,
we're setting this value equals null.
Does that mean we'd have to check for
this value equals null in all of our other
methods?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so it depends.
If you wanna account for
an NP tree in your implementation,
that's how you could do it.
>> Student2: Just
making [INAUDIBLE] method.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hmm?
>> Student2: Probably just make them use
empty method.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Student2: Insert that
everywhere.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
All right.
Cool.
So we talked about delete min/max.
This is a simplified example
of just deleting a node,
more generally from a tree.
So when we're deleting a node from
a binary search tree, there's three cases
and we already talked about the first
two in our min and max, right.
The first case is when
a node is a leaf node.
What do we do?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do we do if it's
a leaf node, meaning it has no children?
>> Student1: We remove the pointer
from the parent.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm hm.
If when into null,
parents pointer is now null,
that's pretty straightforward.
And what do we do when
the node has one child?
>> Student1: Move the node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, you just move
the node up to the parent.
And we know that it's going to
meet our requirements because
the entire right sub-tree is always
going to be greater than the root node.
Or the node in question and the entire
left sub-tree is going to be less.
So if we move it up and
it's just one node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then we're good to go.